USF-3735 Add extendable GraphQL fragments reference for order and account dropins (#757)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/all/extending.mdx

</Tasks>

## Extendable fragments by drop-in

> Each drop-in exports one or more GraphQL fragments that you can extend through `overrideGQLOperations` in your `build.mjs` file. Extending a fragment adds custom fields to the drop-in's existing GraphQL queries without replacing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each drop-in exports one or more `GraphQL` fragments that you can extend using `overrideGQLOperations` in your `build.mjs` file. Extending a fragment adds custom fields to the drop-in's existing queries without replacing them.
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0,1,2]}>

| Drop-in package | Fragment name | GraphQL type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `@dropins/storefront-cart` | `CART_FRAGMENT` | `Cart` | Extends cart queries with additional fields on the `Cart` type. |
| `@dropins/storefront-checkout` | `CHECKOUT_DATA_FRAGMENT` | `Cart` | Extends checkout queries with additional fields on the `Cart` type. |
| `@dropins/storefront-order` | `GUEST_ORDER_FRAGMENT` | `CustomerOrder` | Extends all order detail queries (guest and authenticated) with additional fields on the `CustomerOrder` type. |
| `@dropins/storefront-account` | `CUSTOMER_ORDER_FRAGMENT` | `CustomerOrder` | Extends the orders list query with additional fields on the `CustomerOrder` type. |

</TableWrapper>

### Extending order and account queries

> To add custom fields to order data, extend the fragments for the order and account drop-ins in your `build.mjs` file. The following example adds a `custom_attribute` field to both the order detail and orders list pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add custom fields to order data, extend the fragments for the order and account drop-ins in your `build.mjs` file. The following example shows how to add a `custom_attribute` field to both the order detail and orders list pages:
```

```js title='build.mjs'
import { overrideGQLOperations } from '@dropins/build-tools/gql-extend.js';

overrideGQLOperations([
  {
    npm: '@dropins/storefront-order',
    operations: [
      `fragment GUEST_ORDER_FRAGMENT on CustomerOrder {
        custom_attribute
      }`,
    ],
  },
  {
    npm: '@dropins/storefront-account',
    operations: [
      `fragment CUSTOMER_ORDER_FRAGMENT on CustomerOrder {
        custom_attribute
      }`,
    ],
  },
]);
```

> After updating `build.mjs`, run the install command to apply the fragment extensions. This needs to be re-run after every `npm install` since it patches files inside `node_modules`.

Reviewer: @OscarMerino: This sentence is confusing. Is there a separate install command for `build.mjs` or are you talking about npm-install? In other words, is this rewrite adequate:

After updating `build.mjs`, run `npm run install` to apply the fragment extensions.

Author: It would be more accurate and consistent as follows:
```suggestion
After updating `build.mjs`, run `npm install` to apply the fragment extensions. This needs to be re-run whenever you install new packages since it patches files inside `node_modules`.
```

Do you agree?

<Aside type="tip">
You can extend multiple drop-ins in a single `overrideGQLOperations` call. Each entry in the array targets a different drop-in package.
</Aside>

### Mapping extended data with model transformers

> After extending a fragment, the new fields are included in the GraphQL response but are not automatically displayed. Use model transformers in the drop-in's initializer to map the new data into the drop-in's data model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After extending a `GraphQL` fragment, the response includes the new fields, but they are not automatically displayed. Use model transformers in the drop-in initializer to map the new fields into the drop-in data model.
```

> For example, to make `custom_attribute` available in the order drop-in's data model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make `custom_attribute` available in the order drop-in's data model, add a model transformer in the initializer:
```

```js title='scripts/initializers/order.js'
import { initializers } from '@dropins/tools/initializer.js';
import { initialize } from '@dropins/storefront-order';

await initializers.mountImmediately(initialize, {
  models: {
    OrderDataModel: {
      transformer: (data) => ({
        customAttribute: data?.custom_attribute,
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

> The transformer function receives the GraphQL response data and returns an object that gets merged into the existing data model. Only the fields you return are overridden; all other data renders normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transformer function receives the `GraphQL` response data and returns an object that the system merges into the existing data model. Only the fields you return are overridden; all other data renders normally.
```

<Aside type="tip">

> Each drop-in has its own set of customizable models. See the initialization page for each drop-in for the full list of available models:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each drop-in has its own set of customizable models. See the initialization page of each drop-in for the full list of available models:
```
